[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think for me, there was
always something inside of me.
I always felt there was
something different about me.
But different when you're
growing up as a kid
is not good.
It's not cool.
You don't want to be different.
You want to fit in.
And I'd never honored
that piece of me.
And if I look back on my
life now, and in hindsight,
looking back, I think that
I'm so connected to my mother.
And she is so intuitive.
She's got this
incredible intuition.
But my mother never put
a value on her own skin.
She never looked after herself.
She never trusted her voice.
So my mother always
said, lovingly,
that you were different.
And she never said
it in a way that
made me feel even more
insecure, which I was deeply.
She'd always say it in
the most loving way.
She was my biggest believer
and still is to this day.
But I didn't I didn't
trust that intuition.
No one said to me that it's
OK to feel and to connect
emotionally and to
trust that emotion.
You have to follow a
particular way of being.
And when you're
dyslexic and you're
trying to find your
way in a school
and you can't do what everyone
else can do so easily,
you question who
you are at the core.
And then you had pretty
much every single teacher
telling me, every day
of my life that you're
going to be a failure.
You're lazy.
You're not going
to amount anything.
So, yeah, that was challenging.
But I look back
and I would always
have said that there was
something there, but no one,
I felt, guided me or maybe
I wasn't ready for it.
So there was something there
that got uncovered and became
a little bit more evident
much later in life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I was at that point
in my life in Dublin,
I was living out what I
thought was the perfect plan.
Make enough money,
become financially free,
and then go and find
what you love doing.
Then go and find the passion.
And it was perfect.
It was great.
And it appeared that
everywhere I went,
everyone was telling me
to do the same thing.
Every seminar, every
audio book, every--
I wasn't going to
say podcast 'cause
there wasn't many of them--
were saying the same thing.
Become financially free and then
go and do what you want to do.
You'll have all this freedom.
And it was killing me.
It was killing my soul.
And I remember being asked to
do a speech at one of my best
friend's.
And it was it was a speech
that happened in a place called
the Spa Hotel in Dublin.
And there was a stage
in this big ballroom.
And I said, where's
the top table?
He said, on the stage.
And I said, where do I speak?
And a lot of people would
have said, how exciting.
And I was just so nervous.
I just wanted--
I didn't want to get up there.
I didn't want to--
I actually almost say to
him, find somebody else.
But of course, that wouldn't
have gone down too well.
Anyway, long story short,
I find myself on the stage.
And leading up to
it, I was in my head.
I was stuck in my head
trying to figure out
how to be funny, how to
impact, how to be nice,
how to make sure I slam him
and take him out and make
her look amazing and all
these sorts of things.
And somewhere along the line
I think I can only put it down
to a degree of courage
that I decided to say,
just speak from your heart.
Speak your truth.
And I got up and I
spoke from my heart.
And I remember just saying a
few things about one of my best
buddies from my heart, and there
was just people started crying.
And there was a bit of
carnage and lot of emotion.
And the very end of
the speech, anyway, I
got this standing
ovation, which is not
typical in an Irish wedding
or maybe any weddings
around the world.
I don't know.
But I always remember
coming down off the stage.
And when I got a
standing ovation,
again, my ego didn't kick in.
It wasn't like, oh
my god, I'm the man.
I wanted just the
ground to open up--
I was so embarrassed.
I was so embarrassed by
the standing ovation.
And this young man
approached me with tears
rolling down his face,
who I'd never met before
and I've never met since.
And he put his arms
around me, and he
said, if I ever get married,
will you be my best man.
And I turned around, said go--
you know, feck off type of
thing, as we'd say in Ireland.
And he goes, no, I'm serious.
He says, you've have got a gift.
And I would love to say to you
that I absorbed that, I took it
on, and from that day
forth, everything changed,
because often a stranger can
see something in us that we
can't see ourselves.
And when our family
tells us that we've
got something special,
we often discount it
because they're only saying
that because they love us.
But it shifted
something-- maybe 1%.
It just opened a
little doorway that
was historically
locked, that maybe,
just maybe, I've got something
of value inside of myself.
And therefore, maybe I can
add value to the world in ways
that I couldn't previously see.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah.
I think so many people out there
that set goals and regimently
believe in goal-setting
in the traditional sense.
And I don't.
I think that goal-setting
can be effective.
The challenge with goal-setting
in the traditional sense,
as it's been introduced to
the world over the last,
say, 20, 30, 40 years, is
that it's very mechanical,
it's very intellectual.
And it's often set up in a
way that we don't even know.
But we take goals
belonging to society.
We take goals belonging
to our parents.
We take goals that
we think and justify
and rationalize that we
need in order to be happy.
And ultimately, a lot of
the goals that we set--
I was a great goal-setter.
The problem was, I was
an even better achiever.
And I found myself reaching the
pinnacle of these mountains--
the mountain being
a metaphor for life.
So I reached this
pinnacle, and I'd
stand on the top of this
mountain, look around, go--
I thought I would
feel different.
I thought I'd be happier.
I thought I'd be more content.
And then I'd look
across the horizon.
I'd see another mountain the
distance and go, ah, here's
the problem.
I climbed the wrong mountain.
Now, when I climbed that
mountain in the distance,
then I'll be happy.
And I'll come down
off this mountain,
and I crossed the valley.
And again, this valley
represented years of my life
in some cases.
And I'd climb another
mountain, which
represented another business,
another financial goal,
another material goal, or
even a relationship goal.
I get to the top of that and
the same pattern followed me.
And what I never
realized for-- well,
I did eventually, but
much later in life
is like, why don't I
just stop and ask myself,
why when I achieve
something is it not enough?
And for me personally,
I wasn't enough.
I hadn't done the inner work.
I didn't believe in myself.
I didn't have value
in my own skin.
So no matter what I
achieve externally,
it was never going to be enough.
And I got these expectations
on my own shoulders,
and I projected these
expectations at everybody else.
And when they didn't meet
them, the reason I wasn't happy
is because they're not living
up to the part of the bargain.
My girlfriend should
be a better girlfriend
because she's not making
me as happy as that.
And I was externalizing it all.
I didn't stop and look
at myself in the mirror.
So that's one of the
challenges of seeing the world.
The other thing is
we often set goals
and dreams and aspirations
of what we want to do
and who we want to be, and
we become very identified
with that.
It becomes-- we lose our
identity in what we do,
as opposed to who we are.
So often, when someone sets
out to achieve something
significant that
they've set out,
and even though they have
this inkling in their soul
that this is not me
anymore, this is not
aligned to who I
am, they've set it
out as an intention to the
world so they can't let it go.
So we just stubbornly
move towards the edge
of the cliff, which represents
an emotional crisis,
a breakdown, a slap in the face,
whatever you want to call it.
So there's a few of the
things that I see commonly.
The other thing I see a lot
is-- and the other thing I
experienced myself--
is who-- there's a question
I ask often, and it's not,
are you seeking
validation from somebody.
The question I always ask is,
who are you seeking validation
from.
And if you sit
with that question
and honestly answer that--
truthfully look in the mirror.
Really answer that question
and sit with that question,
I have never found a human being
that's not seeking validation
from somebody else.
And typically, it's
those closest to us.
So if we think about
humans, a lot of humans
care deeply what
other people think.
You bring that back to your own
home, your family, your mother,
your father, typically, you
can multiply that by 1,000.
And when you look
at that and then
you basically look at
the goals and dreams
you've set for yourself,
what you'll find is
often you're waiting--
you're trying to
achieve something
because you want to
get that approval
and validation from your
dad, from your mother.
I have literally
worked with athletes
who have gone to the
pinnacle of their career.
They have gone to the Olympics,
they have gone to the World Cup
soccer, and their
single motivation
that they've told
themselves-- they've
told themselves a
different thing.
But the single motivation,
when you get to the core,
was they wanted their
father, in most cases--
some cases their mother--
to turn around and
say, I am proud of you.
I love you.
And they have spent
10 and 15 and 20
years trying to achieve
the pinnacle of this sport
for no other reason
than seeking validation
from the person that has
been close with them most
of their lives.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm not necessarily
suggesting it's all wrong
and it's fundamentally flawed.
What I'm saying is that
when we're unaware of it,
we're not necessarily--
it's not even "control"
is the wrong word.
We're not doing it for us.
So what I'm saying
is, be aware who
you're seeking validation from
and allow that to inform you.
And still achieve,
still go for things,
still want to be the best.
But sometimes we find that--
I meet entrepreneurs who have
built businesses, empires that
haven't and don't serve them.
But they've reached
certain financial pinnacles
and aesthetic goals
and recognition goals.
And they've been
doing it for reasons
that don't align
with who they are--
they're external motivators.
So it's not wrong.
It's just that if
it can inform you,
I think you're better informed
to make better decisions
and hopefully achieve
greatness and to be
aligned while doing it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think it shows up.
I see people's lack of personal
growth and unwillingness
to work on themselves
show up in--
particularly in
relationships, --
whether it's an intimate
relationship or whether
it's with family or whatever.
So think about it in a
parenting context, what
you have generational behaviors
that have been passed down
through generation, through
generation, through generation.
Sometimes we're conscious of
them, sometimes we're not.
And they can be
beliefs around money.
They can be the fact that
my dad never hugged me,
or we're not as open or we
just talk about the weather.
And I think what happens is,
if someone has the courage
to stop and say, no, I'm going
to do a deep dive on myself.
I'm going to do
that inner work, I
think what we have is
the capacity to change
generational behaviors.
We have the capacity to
change the fundamental outcome
and the outlook of our core
relationship with our partner.
The challenge is
today that we're
great at pointing the fingers.
So I say to any couple who
want to work on themselves,
better the relationship,
well, let go of your partner
and work on yourself and trust
that they will come along.
There's a lot of
people out there
who want to change
their partner.
So often I say, when
it comes to couples,
it's that opposites attract.
We see something in someone
else that we don't necessarily
recognize within ourselves.
Then we spend the next
5, 10, or 15 years
trying to change that person
to see the world like we do.
And that's about control.
But if we could let go--
I said to my wife, within
the last six months,
I said, I'm letting you go.
I don't need you
anymore, but I want you.
And where I see that's it's
just-- it's kind of jovial,
but it's very serious is
that if someone splits up,
we talk about our partners
as your better half.
Someone often says to me,
how's the better half?
My wife's not my better half.
My wife is my wife.
Her name is Pauline.
And she has her own identity.
And she shouldn't be
on the same page as me.
She should be separate.
And I remember
one of the biggest
challenges in
relationships is-- you
use the analogy of a mountain.
As you start going
up that mountain--
the mountain of personal
growth, development,
your own personal journey--
often the person-- one partner
within the relationship
stays at the bottom because they
don't want to necessarily go
on this growth.
And you push them along.
And they don't see you
wanting them to grow.
What they see, they internalize
as you want me to change.
And therefore, why
don't you love me
for who I am, as opposed
to who you want me to be.
And the biggest challenge is,
as you go up that mountain,
the other person refuses to
grow or chooses not to move,
do you stop and come back down
and end up resenting them?
Or do you let go and move
forward and trust that
by your single change,
by your evolution
that they will follow
because they'll
see the greatness in you.
They'll see the change,
they'll see the transformation,
and they will choose
to move forward.
So to me, I think as a
parent, in particular, I
think we have a moral obligation
to grow as an individual.
Because otherwise, we're passing
on generational behaviors that
have been passed
on to us that we're
conscious and unconscious of.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah.
I think I think my wife's
a great example of this.
My wife has studied
as an accountant.
So her background is that she
came from a pretty poor area
in Ireland, a small rural farm.
And one of the things for her
was to get away from that,
to get away, escape
from the poverty.
Escape from the--
when I say poverty,
I mean they just they
didn't have the resources
that a lot of people have.
So when she was in school,
she was good at maths.
So someone said, listen,
you're good at maths.
Accountants get
paid pretty well.
Why don't you become
an accountant?
Her sister was an accountant.
So it was like, yeah,
this makes total sense.
This authoritative figure is
telling her what she should do.
She didn't understand really
that she had choices in life.
She didn't really know herself
that well and she went down.
The challenge is,
fast forward 10 years,
and she's still
running from what
she doesn't want, as opposed
to stopping in life and saying,
OK, I don't want to be poorer,
I don't want to be this.
But could I turn
that-- shift that gaze,
shift that conversation,
change that around
and say, OK, what do I want?
A lot of us in this
world are running
from what we don't want.
Very few people have
stopped and said, OK, I've
done that for 20 years.
What do it want now?
How can I change the game here?
What's possible for my life?
I love those words,
"What's possible."
That really fires me up.
Because what's possible
is often we can't see it.
And she started to
reimagine eventually,
and she's the worst
accountant in the world.
Not because she's
bad with numbers,
but because she was never
destined to be an accountant.
She's got greatness and beauty
and the ability to connect
and the ability
to connect others.
She's the most
extraordinary mother.
She's got this incredible gift.
And yet, she was
executing her talent
for most of her life, which was
her ability to crunch numbers.
The challenge with that is,
that your kids, for example,
get to grow up and
they're conditioned
to do the same thing.
So how many parents
do you meet--
how many parents do I meet--
and you ask them this question,
that they're stuck and they're
in a job they don't want to do.
They're misaligned.
They're in a business
they don't want to be in
and they don't change.
In why they don't change,
they'll say to you things
like, well, I've got to
pay for the private school.
I've got to pay for
the holidays, got
to pay for the cars.
So fast forward 20 years.
Let's called this guy John.
Fast forward 20 years, John, say
one of your kids comes to you
and says, Dad, I'm stuck.
Don't like my work.
Misaligned my job.
What would you say to them?
Most parents would say,
live your dream, buddy.
Don't do something
you don't want to do.
But they won't do it themselves.
So what's going to
happen in 20 years,
it's going to be a lecture.
It's going to be a
lecture, and the kid
is going to be looking at
you as not a kid anymore.
So now they're going, yeah,
Dad, yeah, Dad, whatever.
Rolling their eyes
externally or internally
because you didn't do it.
So if you want to be the
inspiration, the invitation,
the challenge, the
possibility is do it
now so that conversation
never needs to exist.
Because your kids are brought up
knowing that if I am not happy
here and I'm not happy here
and I'm misaligned here
and I'm being treated
poorly that I have got
the right and the
ability to change it now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think visualization is
extraordinarily powerful.
The challenge is, what are
you going to visualize,
and how do we ensure that
what we're visualizing
is in alignment with who we are?
And that's where
visualization can
be both beautiful and brilliant
and incredibly dangerous.
And I've met so many people that
have come to me 10 years, 15,
20 years, arguably, you could
say, too late to discover that
what they visualized, what
they set out to achieve
wasn't really a part
of who they are.
So the better-- often
people saying to me,
how do I find my passion.
How do I find my purpose?
My number one is, we
should reframe the word
"find" and say, how
do we uncover it,
because finding
almost illustrates
that it's under the bed or
it's over behind a counter
or it's in a box somewhere.
And ultimately, it's
within ourselves.
So if you think about
that and say, OK,
what if I understand who I am.
Therefore, what I am here to
do starts to kind of become--
it just starts to just roll out.
It starts to become
very evident in time.
So visualization is
extraordinarily powerful.
I mean, I've used visualization
myself to visualize myself
onstage.
Not a specific stage, not
with a specific speaker.
But I remember just the
feeling of standing on a stage
and attempting to emotionally
engage with other people.
And years later, I find
myself speaking on stages
that I couldn't have imagined.
But there were places
in between where
I lost that connection,
that emotional connection.
And I started, as embarrassing
as it is, looking at speakers
and going, I want to be them.
That's who I want to be.
And I was trying to
be something I wasn't.
And every time, I lose myself.
I get up into my
head, I lose myself.
It becomes misaligned.
It becomes distorted.
So when I get back to
the emotional connection,
it's not attached to an outcome.
It's a feeling, and it's
very, very different.
So if you can align
the intellectual goal
with the emotion and that's
what you visualize on,
it's extraordinary.
And one of the things that I
just announced last night, I
announced that the first
time seven years ago--
and it's nothing to do
with Donald Trump-- is I
have announced that I want to
be president of Ireland in 2025.
And people have said to me--
they've judged me for the last
seven years on this--
I don't talk about it a lot.
And very few people
have ever asked me why.
They judge me, but
they don't ask me why.
And it's all about my why.
I want to be president
of Ireland, which
is not a very political role--
I'm not big into politics.
So it's so I can use the
office to not just promote,
but inspire people to promote
the island of Ireland,
the place that I love so much.
To give back to that country, to
inspire the people of Ireland.
But if nothing else, I
created an intention.
I visualize something
in the future and 2025.
If I happen to be
the scapegoat that
falls false flat on his
face-- if I'm the guy that
gets ridiculed for even
wanting such a silly dream,
for putting
themselves out there,
but if it inspires one
other the human being to go,
wow, you mean you can do that?
You can make an intent?
You can visualize
something you want in 2025?
Yeah, you can.
Maybe they'll do a book.
Maybe they'll share their story.
Maybe they'll do a podcast.
Maybe they'll make a film.
Maybe they'll do
something different.
And if I have to take some
flak for that in the next 10
or 15 years, so be it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
What I do today is a
representation of the life
that I've lived.
So life leaves clues.
When I look back over my
life, everything I do today,
the signposts were there.
I mean, I had my stag
party 15 years ago,
and I ran a workshop
for 25 guys,
the west coast of Ireland.
And that has inspired an
experience that I run today.
And I was focused so much on
the future and spending so much
time in the future, running
towards something that I
thought would make me
happy-- and it might have--
but I never put a
value on the past.
I never put a value on my story.
And I don't believe
there's any greater
story in the world than
my individual story,
than your individual
story, than other people's
individual stories
because it's theirs.
And the challenge
today is so many people
want other people's stories.
They go, oh, I want a bit of
Branson's, and I want a bit
of this guy's, and I want
a bit of that woman's.
And the problem is, you
don't get that luxury.
So you've got two choices--
you accept the one
you've been given
and you do the work
on it so you can
accept the good, the
bad, and the ugly of it
and see the gift
and the pain, or you
can spend the rest of your
life trying to rewrite
the story of the past.
I also say the past
has created the present
and the present is
creating the future.
So everything we've
been, everybody
we've met, every
circumstance we've
been in, every decision we've
made, every decision we haven't
made has ultimately
created who we are today.
And therefore, every decision
that we're making today,
and every decision
we're not making today,
everything we're doing today
is determining our future.
But if you want to
understand your patterns,
if you want to
understand self-sabotage,
you want to understand who
you are at the core, go back.
You go back to the future.
You go back and
understand who you are.
You don't stay here forever,
but go back and do a deep dive.
You ask people
what's your story,
they go, I was born in Dublin.
Two older brothers.
I went to school for 15 years.
I used to like cycling my bike.
I played a bit of
soccer, and that's it.
No, that's not your story.
Go back and really do a
deep dive in your story.
It can be incredibly
cathartic, incredibly
therapeutic, it can be
incredibly profound.
And what you'll find is insights
into what I call your gift.
Picasso said, the meaning of
life is to find your gift.
The purpose of life
is to give it away.
Everyone has a gift.
People call it a purpose.
Some people call it a passion.
I believe we've all
got a gift within us.
It doesn't need to
be necessarily found.
It needs to be uncovered.
And the greatest
clues, I believe,
in terms of what your gift
is, what you're here to do
is in your story.
On the gift, if I
may just add this
is I believe our gift is
this inherent ability that we
have to impact other
people in a positive way.
To give back.
To impact the world.
To shift somebody
emotionally or mentally.
That's our gift.
Everyone has that capacity.
What makes our gift
unique is the lens
in which we look through it, and
that is our personal narrative.
That's our personal story.
So when I went back and I
understood the joy of my life
and the pain of my life,
my mission became, I never
want anyone to
experience that pain.
Anyone that comes
into contact with me
is not going to go through the
challenges that I went through.
They're not going to go through
the misalignments I go through.
And I'm going to help them
through my personal narrative,
not necessarily experienced
the same pain that I did
and fast track the process
so they can make a bigger
impact in their own lives
and other people's lives
faster than I did.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah.
I think that intuition is
something that's just--
it has been undervalued
for many, many years.
I think people are starting to
really appreciate and respect
the fact that it has huge value,
not just in our personal lives.
People think of an
intuition is just
some floppy kind of
personal concept thing that
just works in my personal life.
It's got a massive
application in business.
So I had a client
recently-- we sat down,
and it was a $3
million conversation.
They either did this deal
or they didn't do this deal.
And we just sat
there and we didn't
talk about the strategy and
the tactics of this outcome.
We just talked about her life.
And we talked about
some of the things
she's gone through,
that she has this tendency to
do, like complicate her life
and create complexity
and put stress
on herself and everything else.
And we just talked
about and connected her
emotionally with
some of the things
that she's been through,
she wants to achieve.
And at the very end
of the conversation,
I said, would you want
to get back to this deal
that you want to do and decide
what you should-- and she goes,
no, I know exactly
what I need to do.
And up to that point, not
because it's about me, but up
to that point, she was
going to execute this deal
and it wouldn't have served her.
It might have made
her money, but it
wasn't going to serve her.
So many of us have
got into relationships
that we know in our heart and
soul, we know it's not aligned,
whether it's in business or
it's in a personal relationship.
We do it anyway
and it goes south.
We get screwed eventually.
And sometimes we blame the
person; sometimes we get angry.
But if we looked in
the mirror and said,
OK, did you really know that
that was in alignment or not.
And often, the case
is, we absolutely did.
The client of mine
said one day, I'm
sorry I listened to my
intuition, said no one ever.
Your intuition, I believe,
will never lead you astray.
It has never been wrong.
It never will be wrong.
It will always lead you
in the right direction,
even if it appears
initially that it didn't.
The challenge is,
can we listen to it?
As a kid, I believe that
we have immense intuition.
It's just part of who we are.
And then, I think, one of
the things that happens--
just one--
is we start to want to fit in.
So in the schoolyard,
we're around 10 years old--
I used to say 15.
I think it happens much sooner.
And maybe even eight.
And we want to fit into
the group over here
or we want to stand out
in the group over there.
And we lean over and
we pick up a mask
and we put it on our face.
And we just pretend to
be a little bit different
than who we are really.
And then we take another
mask later in life in college
to kind of stand out and be the
clown or be the funny person
or be the drinker or be
the whatever because we
want to fit in there.
And then we get into corporate
life and we do the same thing,
and then we may set
up our own business
or whatever it happens to be.
We go to a bar,
we put on makeup,
but we also wear a
couple of masks with us.
And we pretend to be somebody
that we're not necessarily
at the core in order
to achieve something.
And I think that every
time we do that, we
suppress that intuition.
We're absorbing
information in the world
today like the speed of light.
If information was
the problem, we'd
all be blissfully happy
and incredibly healthy,
eating the perfect food.
If I've got waist, and I've
got a little bit of weight
perhaps I need to lose, I know
if I give up alcohol, reduce
my sugar intake, do a bit
more exercise, or even
similar exercise, I'm
going to lose some of it.
I don't need another
book to tell me that.
But why haven't I do that?
Why amn't I doing that?
And I think sometimes we're
absorbing so much information
that we're not giving it
time to go from information
to knowledge,
knowledge to wisdom,
and wisdom to awareness.
Because I'm too busy running to
the next book and the next book
and the next book.
And I'm absorbing
so much information,
but I'm not allowing it to
translate into awareness
and understanding.
So to me, intuition is one
of these things that's been
suppressed, it's been blocked.
And I would encourage anybody
in the world if they want to--
if they want to get in touch
with more intuition, if they
want to increase
their intuition,
if they want to
uncover more of it,
don't go looking
for it externally.
Ask yourself, why isn't it?
Why am I not in touch with it?
Why isn't it close?
Why isn't it attainable?
What's blocking is?
Intuition is just been blocked.
It's already there.
We all have it.
And I find one of the biggest
inhibitors to intuition
is anger.
One of the biggest blocks
to intuition is anger.
The challenge with
anger is societally,
we don't understand anger.
We think anger is throwing
chairs across the room,
shouting at people,
taking golf clubs out
of the back of our cars
when someone cuts us off
of the traffic lights,
we think that's anger.
And therefore, it's not really
given a place in society
for conversation and respect.
Everyone in this
world has anger--
everybody.
Everybody.
It's an emotion.
The problem is where it becomes
very dangerous is when we
don't-- we're not aware of it
and we're not in touch with it.
Anger, I believe, is
the greatest inhibitor
to intuition flowing between
our brain and our body.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah.
It's a really
interesting question.
In a coaching capacity, I
used to use accountability
a lot more.
OK.
So accountability
was a cornerstone
of a lot of the work I did.
And I remember literally
in between weekends
with ongoing clients getting
them to identify the three
things they were going to
do between this session
and the next session.
I would literally get them
to sign the piece of paper
with their signature and I
would hold them accountable.
And to some extent,
I was ruthless.
Like if they came in
and they didn't do it,
they had to have a
really good reason.
I was like a
teacher on steroids.
And what I found was they
were achieving the things,
but they weren't getting any
more fulfilled in some cases.
They weren't necessarily more
happier in their own skin.
They didn't necessarily
have the peace
of mind, which I think is
an incredible indicator.
If you want to know how happy
you are, how aligned you are,
just check in and
see how at peace you
are within your own soul.
If you don't have peace,
you're misaligned somewhere
in your life.
It's just your body telling
you something's out of kilter.
Trust it.
Don't ignore it.
I found myself questioning
this accountability.
Why do I have to keep grown
men and women accountable?
And the reason for that is a
lot of the goals or the things
they committed to doing
were out of alignments
because they were basically
trying to achieve things
towards a common goal a common
dream or anything else, which
wasn't part of who they were.
So what I did was
I scrapped that,
and my work has now
become all about becoming
aligned with your purpose,
aligned, uncovering your gift,
executing your gift,
and impacting the world.
And when someone gets in
touch with their gift, when
they start to uncover it, when
someone starts to see and feel
that they're on purpose,
no one in this world
needs to keep them accountable.
No one.
Even people who've
said, oh I'm lazy.
Yeah, yeah right.
You're lazy because you
know what, you're doing
shit you don't want to do.
Procrastination.
People say, oh, I'm
a procrastinator.
Said, no, you're not.
You're just putting
yourself under pressure
to do stuff towards
something that's
not aligned to who you are.
You get somebody
on purpose, no one
needs to keep them accountable.
It's extraordinary to watch what
happens to their productivity,
their output, their
courage, because it's not
about them anymore.
Because I believe all of our
purposes, all of our gifts,
are connected to
impacting other people.
And when you stop making
this journey about you,
you can externalize-- you're
focusing on other people.
You don't need anyone
to keep you accountable.
You don't even need a
reminder on your iPhone
necessarily because
you do it every waking
moment of every single day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I don't believe the
goal should ever
be to get over fear, because
I don't think you can.
I think fear has more energy
then you and I will ever have.
And most people run from fear,
and fear doesn't need caffeine.
It doesn't need green juice.
It doesn't need water.
It doesn't need food.
No matter how fast
and how hard you
run for as many years
as you possibly can,
and eventually when you stop
and you're out of breath,
you eventually have to take
a break, you look behind
and the bastard's right
over your shoulder.
It will always be with you.
So rather than trying
to eradicate fear,
killing fear, moving
beyond fear, why don't we
turn about and just
get to know it.
Why don't we sit down
and understand it?
Every time I get on
a stage and speak,
every time, I want to puke.
I get up there--
before I get up, I have this
butterfly, horrible feeling
in my stomach I want to puke up.
But what I've learned
to do is become
comfortable with the unknown,
comfortable with fear
to a point.
So when the fear comes, I
basically just sometimes close
my eyes, and as corny
as it sounds, I just go,
ha, you're back.
And when you name it,
it doesn't disappear.
It just loosens its grip on you.
So understand the fear because
it's never going to go away.
Because there's so many
books, so many conversations,
so many speeches around fear,
and yet, it still grips so much
of the population today.
My belief is that we
shouldn't try to eradicate it.
We should get to know
it and understand it.
And when you do a
deep dive into--
and not even a deep
dive, just face the fear
and really break down
what is it actually about,
what you'll find
as it brings you
in ways and in doorways and
in corridors that you'd never
previously understood.
And I promise you, the next
time you do the very same act,
the fear will come up, it
just won't last as long.
It won't grip you.
It won't stifle you.
And you just keep going.
So to me, the invitation
and the challenge
is to get to understand the
fear, not just intellectually,
but get in touch
with it emotionally.
And almost for it to
become your friend.
>> Excellent.
>> But beyond fear, I appreciate
fear holds people back in some
ways.
The thing that I feel
holds people back most is
a lack of value in themselves.
So when I meet people and they
have a dream or an aspiration,
or perhaps they don't,
most people I meet
don't have clarity
about what they
want to do when they grow up.
Which, ironically, offers
a type of convenience
because telling yourself that
you're unclear, constantly
telling yourself you're unclear,
is kind of cool because then
you don't actually have to act.
And I'm sorry,
but everyone knows
what they want to do for
the rest of their life,
and I give you an
example of this.
I was in a meeting
recently, and there
was a gentleman in front of me.
And he was talking about the
fact that he wasn't happy
and aligned within the
business that he did.
Wasn't happy.
And I said, well, do you
want to make some changes?
He says, I would if I
knew what I would do next.
Now, there's two issues there.
Number one is, he hasn't got the
space or the emotional space,
the capacity to
even dream and allow
the next thing to show up.
So my encouragement
sometimes is,
you've got to create
the space, not just
the physical and
mental, but sometimes
the emotional space to allow
what's next to come up.
The other thing is,
I didn't believe him.
I looked in this man's
eyes and thinking,
this guy's bullshitting me.
He's bullshitting himself.
We lie to ourselves
all the time in life.
And the science is
coming out about why--
not just necessarily
why, but the fact
that we lie to
ourselves as human.
We tell ourselves
stories that just
don't exist to rationalize
and justify the fact that we
don't have to make changes.
I looked at this
man and I said--
I said, I'm sorry, but I
just don't believe you.
I said, I believe you know
exactly what you want to do.
And he goes, no, Philip
you're not listening to me.
I don't.
And I said, well, if you
did, what would it look like?
And I said, no
pressure, but we're
going to sit here for
the next five hours
if we have to until
you tell us what it is
you want to do with your life.
And eventually out
of pure frustration,
he goes, OK, I'd
work with people.
And I looked at him.
I said, oh, picking cotton.
And I can be
annoying on purpose.
And he goes, no,
not picking cotton.
I'd serve people.
Burgers?
Well, he said you're not
a million miles away.
He said, I'd create a
community around food.
And the rest of people were
looking at me going, McKernan,
can you not-- do you not
hear what he's saying?
He doesn't know.
Leave him alone.
And the minute he said,
I'd create a community,
something shifted in his body.
He went from his head
to his soul, his heart,
whatever you want to call
it and his body moved.
And I said, where are
you going to do this?
He said, I'm not sure.
I said, yeah, you do.
You know exactly.
He said it'll be in Toronto.
I said, what's the neighborhood?
He named the neighborhood.
And eventually, he looks
and he goes, OK, OK.
I even have the menu.
He knew all the time.
Then we've gone into why
does he not want to execute
and then the complications, then
the fears, then the concern,
the living up to expectations,
letting people down,
all these things
start coming up.
I have never met
a human being that
doesn't know what they want
to do for the rest of life.
Ever.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah.
People have asked
me, are you very--
I always used to say, I'm
not a spiritual person.
I'm just a spiritual entity.
I mean, I'm-- and the work
that I believe we need to do
to uncover who we really
are and therefore,
what we're here to do,
the destiny, the gift,
it's totally spiritual.
It's all spiritual.
People say to me a lot
that I have a gift,
and I don't believe
that's for me to say.
I really don't.
I feel something,
but I don't believe
it's for me to self-assess
or even identify or try
to describe.
It's just not for me.
I just don't feel that--
I just don't feel
that feels respectful.
But if I do, it's on loan.
If I do have a
gift, it's on loan.
And what I choose to do with to
gift for the rest of my life,
that's why I'm here.
That's what I'm here to do.
I'm here to use the gift
that I've been given
for a short space of time.
And if I can impart
it on to other people
and use my gift to help
them uncover theirs,
and they go on to
help other people,
I can't imagine anything
better than that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I don't necessarily
want to be remembered.
I don't have a desire
to be remembered.
I want to leave people
believing in themselves.
believing they have value.
I want people to know
that they matter.
And if I get forgotten in that
process, that's OK with me.
I'm perfectly OK with that.
There's so many people walking
around this world today that
don't believe they matter and
don't believe they have a voice
and don't believe that
their story matters.
Now they can point
to a stage and they
can point to "Forbes" magazine
and they can point to whatever
as inspirational and
iconic characters
in wealth terms or
economic terms or whatever.
And they'll say, that guy, that
girl is important, but not me.
And that has to change.
And on my watch, I will try
and change that conversation
as much as I possibly can,
because the only thing
that matters in this
world is your story.
And next to that, you see,
if you can accept and embrace
your own story, maybe
you can use your story
to help other people.
And the invitation I have
to people in recent years
is to stop making this
journey about you.
Do the personal growth, do
a deep dive in who you are.
Understand who you are, get
in touch with your story.
Don't allow the
fear to grip you.
And in the absence of
clarity, take action anyway.
Keep moving, even if you're
not sure where you're going.
But, eventually stopped
making the journey about you.
Turn the gaze.
Turn the mirror
away from yourself
and say, how can I
impact other people
and start making the rest of
your life about other people.
And that, to me, is a
legacy worth leaving.
[MUSIC PLAYING]